# cybertraining
Data Streams, Model Workflows, and Educational Pipelines: using cyberinfrastructure to address challenges in water research training, education and workforce development

New cyberinfrastructure that emphasizes data sharing and open, reproducible software practices is currently in development, but requires a mode of knowledge transfer, or CyberTraining, that extends beyond currently available university curriculum.  Our aim is to ensure successful use of community cyberinfrastructure to 1) publish large datasets, 2) run numerical models, 3) organize collaborative research projects, and 4) meet journal requirements to follow open data standards. Our activities take advantage of HydroShare, a National Science Foundation funded cyberinfrastructure platform, operated by the Consortium of Universities Allied for Hydrologic Sciences (CUAHSI), for sharing hydrologic data and models.  Our short-term goals are to develop new CyberTraining modules; our long-term goals are to have an annually recurring WaterHackWeek, to distribute curriculum CUAHSI to more than 130+  member universities, and advance cyberinfrastructure education for the broader geoscience community. The use of the hackweek educational model extends the use of cyberinfrastructure to promote the progress of science by including a specific emphasis on graduate student training as instructors, training coordinators, and building research networks with data providers who are stakeholders outside of academia.   This project allows us to test the educational model  in the water research community, in addition to connecting our research and curriculum to annually recurring hackweeks in neuro, astro, ocean, and geo-sciences (since 2014).  Our team of researchers is actively engaged in experimenting with this new model, and in testing its efficacy through robust evaluation metrics. The proposed activities encourage collaboration and support for use of cyberinfrastructure at all stages of the educational pipeline and provides participants with opportunities for networking, career development, community building and design of open-source software tools. 
